(GH-8503) Add about_Module_Manifests (#8696)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/5.1/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Module_Manifest.md

|                       |      Value      |
| --------------------- | --------------- |
| **Input Type**        | `System.String` |
| **Required**          | No              |
| **Value if unset**    | `$null`         |
| **Accepts wildcards** | No              |

This manifest declares that the module was created by Contoso, Ltd.

```powershell
@{
    CompanyName = 'Contoso, Ltd.'
}
```

### Copyright

This setting specifies a copyright statement for the module.

|                       |      Value      |
| --------------------- | --------------- |
| **Input Type**        | `System.String` |
| **Required**          | No              |
| **Value if unset**    | `$null`         |
| **Accepts wildcards** | No              |

This manifest declares a copyright statement reserving all rights to Contoso,
Ltd. as of 2022.

```powershell
@{
    Copyright = '(c) 2022 Contoso, Ltd. All rights reserved.'
}
```

### Description

This setting describes the module at a high level.

|                       |         Value          |
| --------------------- | ---------------------- |
| **Input Type**        | `System.String`        |

> | **Required**          | For PowerShell Gallery |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Required**          | PowerShell Gallery |
```

Entries for this setting can be a module name, a full module specification, or a
path to a module or script file.

When the value is a path, the path can be fully qualified or relative.

When the value is a module name or specification, PowerShell searches the
**PSModulePath** for the specified module.

A module specification is a hash table that has the following keys.

- `ModuleName` - **Required**. Specifies the module name.
- `GUID` - **Optional**. Specifies the GUID of the module.
- It's also **Required** to specify at least one of the three below keys. The
  `RequiredVersion` key can't be used with the `ModuleVersion` or
  `MaximumVersion` keys. You can define an acceptable version range for the
  module by specifying the `ModuleVersion` and `MaximumVersion` keys together.
  - `ModuleVersion` - Specifies a minimum acceptable version of the module.
  - `RequiredVersion` - Specifies an exact, required version of the module.
  - `MaximumVersion` - Specifies the maximum acceptable version of the module.

> [!NOTE]
> `RequiredVersion` was added in Windows PowerShell 5.0.
> `MaximumVersion` was added in Windows PowerShell 5.1.

> Typically, nested modules contain commands that the root module needs for its
> internal processing. By default, the commands in nested modules are exported
> from the module's session state into the caller's session state, but the root
> module can restrict the commands that it exports with the `Export-ModuleMember`
> command. You can always use the **FunctionsToExport** and **CmdletsToExport**
> settings to further restrict exported commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any items that need to be exported from a nested module must exported by the
nested module using the `Export-ModuleMember` cmdlet or be listed in one of the
export properties:

- **FunctionsToExport**
- **CmdletsToExport**
- **VariablesToExport**
- **AliasesToExport**
```

Scripts (`.ps1`) that are listed in this setting are run in the module's session
state, not in the caller's session state. To run a script in the caller's
session state, list the script filename in the **ScriptsToProcess** setting.

For example, when you import this manifest, the `Helpers.psm1` module is loaded
into the root module's session state. Any cmdlets declared in the nested module
are exported unless otherwise restricted.

```powershell
@{
    NestedModules = @(
        'Helpers\Helpers.psm1'
    )
}
```

### FunctionsToExport

This setting specifies the functions that the module exports. You can use this
setting to restrict the functions that are exported by the module. It can remove
functions from the list of exported functions, but it can't add functions to the
list.

|                       |       Value       |
| --------------------- | ----------------- |
| **Input Type**        | `System.String[]` |
| **Required**          | No                |
| **Value if unset**    | `$null`           |
| **Accepts wildcards** | Yes               |

You can specify entries in this setting with wildcards. All matching functions

> in the list of exported functions is exported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the list of exported functions are exported.
```

> [!TIP]
> For performance and discoverability, you should always explicitly list the
> functions you want your module to export in this setting without using any
> wildcards.

> For example, when you import this module, all functions the root module and any
> nested modules export are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, when you import a module with the setting commented out, 
all functions in the root module and any nested modules are exported.
```

        'Get-Example'
    )
}
```

With **FunctionsToExport** set with a wildcard string, when you import this
module any function whose name ends with `Example` is made available, even if
other functions were exported as module members by the root module or any nested
modules.

```powershell
@{
    FunctionsToExport = @(
        '*Example'
    )
}
```

### CmdletsToExport

This setting specifies the cmdlets that the module exports. You can use this
setting to restrict the cmdlets that are exported by the module. It can remove
cmdlets from the list of exported module members, but it can't add cmdlets to
the list.

|                       |       Value       |
| --------------------- | ----------------- |
| **Input Type**        | `System.String[]` |
| **Required**          | No                |
| **Value if unset**    | `$null`           |
| **Accepts wildcards** | Yes               |

You can specify entries in this setting with wildcards. All matching cmdlets
in the list of exported cmdlets is exported.

> [!TIP]
> For performance and discoverability, you should always explicitly list the
> cmdlets you want your module to export in this setting without using any
> wildcards.

> For example, when you import this module, all cmdlets the root module and any
> nested modules export are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, when you import a module with this setting commented out, 
all cmdlets in the root module and any nested modules are exported.
```

    )
}
```

With **CmdletsToExport** set with a wildcard string, when you import this
module any cmdlet whose name ends with `Example` is made available, even if
other cmdlets were exported as module members by the root module or any nested
modules.

```powershell
@{
    CmdletsToExport = @(
        '*Example'
    )
}
```

### VariablesToExport

This setting specifies the variables that the module exports. You can use this
setting to restrict the variables that are exported by the module. It can remove
variables from the list of exported module members, but it can't add variables
to the list.

|                       |       Value       |
| --------------------- | ----------------- |
| **Input Type**        | `System.String[]` |
| **Required**          | No                |
| **Value if unset**    | `$null`           |
| **Accepts wildcards** | Yes               |

You can specify entries in this setting with wildcards. All matching variables
in the list of exported module members is exported.

> [!TIP]
> For performance and discoverability, you should always explicitly list the
> variables you want your module to export in this setting without using any
> wildcards.

> For example, when you import this module, all variables the root module and any
> nested modules export are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, when you import a module with this setting commented out,
all variables in the root module and any nested modules are exported.
```

| **Required**          | No                |
| **Value if unset**    | `$null`           |
| **Accepts wildcards** | Yes               |

Entries for this setting should be the relative path to a file from the folder
containing the module manifest.

When a user calls `Get-Module` against a manifest with this setting defined, the
**FileList** property of the returned object will be the full path to these
files, joining the module's path with each entry's relative path.

This manifest does not include a list of its files.

```powershell
@{
    # FileList = @()
}
```

This manifest declares that the only files it includes are listed in this
setting.

```powershell
@{
    Filelist = @(
        'Example.psd1'
        'Example.psm1'
        'Assemblies\Example.dll'
        'Scripts\Initialize.ps1'
        'Submodules\First.psm1'
        'Submodules\Second.psm1'
    )
}
```

### PrivateData

This setting defines a hash table of data which is passed to the defined
**RootModule** on import.

|                       |             Value              |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| **Input Type**        | `System.Collections.Hashtable` |

> | **Required**          | For PowerShell Gallery         |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Required**          | PowerShell Gallery         |
```

into the caller's session state.

The value must be the file path to one of the following:

- a script (`.ps1`)
- a script module (`.psm1`)
- a module manifest (`.psd1`)
- an assembly (`.dll`)
- a cmdlet definition XML file (`.cdxml`)
- a PowerShell Workflow (`.xaml`)

The file path should be relative to the module manifest.

If a module has a manifest file and no root file was designated in the
**RootModule** key, the manifest becomes the primary file for the module, and
the module becomes a manifest module (ModuleType = Manifest). When
**RootModule** is defined, the module's type is determined from the file
extension used:

- a `.ps1` or `.psm1` file makes the module type **Script**
- a `.psd1` file makes the module type **Manifest**
- a `.dll` file makes the module type **Binary**
- a `.cdxml` file makes the module type **CIM**
- a `.xaml` file makes the module type **Workflow**

To export members from `.psm1` or `.dll` files in a module that has a manifest,
the names of those files must be specified in the values of the **RootModule**
or **NestedModules** keys in the manifest. Otherwise, their members aren't

> exported.

Reviewer: What about cdxml and xaml types, are their values exported differently? In script-based modules, you can use the `Export-ModuleMember` cmdlet.

So really, you mean that for exports defined in the manifest, the files containing the items to be exported must be listed in **RootModule** or **NestModules**.

> [!TIP]
> Module loading speed differs between **Binary**, **Script**, and **CIM**
> module types. For more information, see
> [PowerShell module authoring considerations](/powershell/scripting/dev-cross-plat/performance/module-authoring-considerations)

#### When RootModule is an empty string

This module's **ModuleType** is **Manifest**. The only module members this
module can export are those defined in the modules specified for the
**NestedModules** setting.

```powershell
@{
    RootModule = ''
}
```

#### When RootModule is a script module

This module's **ModuleType** is **Script**.

```powershell
@{
    RootModule = 'Example.psm1'
}
```

#### When RootModule is a binary module

This module's **ModuleType** is **Binary**.

```powershell
@{
    RootModule = 'Example.dll'
}
```

#### When RootModule is a relative path

In this example, PowerShell loads `Example.psm1` from the `Files` folder
relative to the `.psd1` manifest file.

```powershell
@{
    RootModule = 'Files/Example.psm1'
}

> ```

Reviewer: I am not sure that these are needed. It seems redundant to the bullet list above.

```

Specifies the module's compatible PSEditions. If not set, the module is expected
to be compatible for all PSEditions. For information about PSEdition, see
[Modules with compatible PowerShell Editions](/powershell/scripting/gallery/concepts/module-psedition-support).

#### When CompatiblePSEditions is unset

This module can be imported in both **Desktop Edition** and **Core Edition**
sessions, as well as older versions of Windows PowerShell.

```powershell
@{
    # CompatiblePSEditions = @()
}
```

#### When CompatiblePSEditions is set to Desktop

This module can only be imported in Windows PowerShell sessions where the
`$PSEdition` automatic variable's value is `Desktop`.

```powershell
@{
    CompatiblePSEditions = @('Desktop')
}
```

#### When CompatiblePSEditions is set to Core

This module can only be imported in sessions where the `$PSEdition` automatic
variable's value is `Core`.

```powershell
@{
    CompatiblePSEditions = @('Core')
}
```

#### When CompatiblePSEditions is set to Desktop and Core

This module can only be imported in sessions where the `$PSEdition` automatic
variable exists.

```powershell
@{
    CompatiblePSEditions = @('Desktop', 'Core')
}

> ```

Reviewer: Ditch the H4s. Make the description more imperative. Don't need to show all 4 possible combinations. Just explain that "Undefined is the same as `@('Desktop', 'Core')`.

An empty array is allowed. Do we know if that is the same as both? Or what does it mean to be 'none'?
